doc/benchmarking.md, before:

Benchmarking
============

Bitcoin Core has an internal benchmarking framework, with benchmarks
for cryptographic algorithms (e.g. SHA1, SHA256, SHA512, RIPEMD160, Poly1305, ChaCha20), rolling bloom filter, coins selection,
thread queue, wallet balance.

Running
---------------------

For benchmarking, you only need to compile `bitcoin_bench`.  The bench runner
warns if you configure with `--enable-debug`, but consider if building without
it will impact the benchmark(s) you are interested in by unlatching log printers
and lock analysis.

    make -C src bitcoin_bench

After compiling bitcoin-core, the benchmarks can be run with:

    src/bench/bench_bitcoin

The output will look similar to:
```
|               ns/op |                op/s |    err% |     total | benchmark
|--------------------:|--------------------:|--------:|----------:|:----------
|       57,927,463.00 |               17.26 |    3.6% |      0.66 | `AddrManAdd`
|          677,816.00 |            1,475.33 |    4.9% |      0.01 | `AddrManGetAddr`

...

|             ns/byte |              byte/s |    err% |     total | benchmark
|--------------------:|--------------------:|--------:|----------:|:----------
|              127.32 |        7,854,302.69 |    0.3% |      0.00 | `Base58CheckEncode`
|               31.95 |       31,303,226.99 |    0.2% |      0.00 | `Base58Decode`

...
```

Help
---------------------

    src/bench/bench_bitcoin -?

To print the various options, like listing the benchmarks without running them
or using a regex filter to only run certain benchmarks.

Notes
---------------------
More benchmarks are needed for, in no particular order:
- Script Validation
- Coins database
- Memory pool
- Cuckoo Cache
- P2P throughput

Going Further
--------------------

To monitor Bitcoin Core performance more in depth (like reindex or IBD): https://github.com/chaincodelabs/bitcoinperf

To generate Flame Graphs for Bitcoin Core: https://github.com/eklitzke/bitcoin/blob/flamegraphs/doc/flamegraphs.md

Commit message:

doc: Update for CMake-based build system
Co-authored-by: Lőrinc <pap.lorinc@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: pablomartin4btc <pablomartin4btc@gmail.com>

doc/benchmarking.md, after:

Benchmarking
============

Bitcoin Core has an internal benchmarking framework, with benchmarks
for cryptographic algorithms (e.g. SHA1, SHA256, SHA512, RIPEMD160, Poly1305, ChaCha20), rolling bloom filter, coins selection,
thread queue, wallet balance.

Running
---------------------

For benchmarking, you only need to compile `bench_bitcoin`.  The bench runner
warns if you configure with `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug`, but consider if building without
it will impact the benchmark(s) you are interested in by unlatching log printers
and lock analysis.

    cmake -B build -DBUILD_BENCH=ON
    cmake --build build -t bench_bitcoin

After compiling bitcoin-core, the benchmarks can be run with:

    build/src/bench/bench_bitcoin

The output will look similar to:
```
|               ns/op |                op/s |    err% |     total | benchmark
|--------------------:|--------------------:|--------:|----------:|:----------
|       57,927,463.00 |               17.26 |    3.6% |      0.66 | `AddrManAdd`
|          677,816.00 |            1,475.33 |    4.9% |      0.01 | `AddrManGetAddr`

...

|             ns/byte |              byte/s |    err% |     total | benchmark
|--------------------:|--------------------:|--------:|----------:|:----------
|              127.32 |        7,854,302.69 |    0.3% |      0.00 | `Base58CheckEncode`
|               31.95 |       31,303,226.99 |    0.2% |      0.00 | `Base58Decode`

...
```

Help
---------------------

    build/src/bench/bench_bitcoin -?

To print the various options, like listing the benchmarks without running them
or using a regex filter to only run certain benchmarks.

Notes
---------------------
More benchmarks are needed for, in no particular order:
- Script Validation
- Coins database
- Memory pool
- Cuckoo Cache
- P2P throughput

Going Further
--------------------

To monitor Bitcoin Core performance more in depth (like reindex or IBD): https://github.com/chaincodelabs/bitcoinperf

To generate Flame Graphs for Bitcoin Core: https://github.com/eklitzke/bitcoin/blob/flamegraphs/doc/flamegraphs.md
