doc/build-windows.md, before:

WINDOWS BUILD NOTES
====================

Below are some notes on how to build Bitcoin Core for Windows.

The options known to work for building Bitcoin Core on Windows are:

* On Linux, using the [Mingw-w64](https://www.mingw-w64.org/) cross compiler tool chain.
* On Windows, using [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) and Mingw-w64.
* On Windows, using [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com). See [README.md](/build_msvc/README.md).

Other options which may work, but which have not been extensively tested are (please contribute instructions):

* On Windows, using a POSIX compatibility layer application such as [cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com/) or [msys2](https://www.msys2.org/).

Installing Windows Subsystem for Linux
---------------------------------------

Follow the upstream installation instructions, available [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install).

Cross-compilation for Ubuntu and Windows Subsystem for Linux
------------------------------------------------------------

The steps below can be performed on Ubuntu or WSL. The depends system
will also work on other Linux distributions, however the commands for
installing the toolchain will be different.

First, install the general dependencies:

    sudo apt update
    sudo apt upgrade
    sudo apt install build-essential libtool autotools-dev automake pkg-config bsdmainutils curl git

A host toolchain (`build-essential`) is necessary because some dependency
packages need to build host utilities that are used in the build process.

See [dependencies.md](dependencies.md) for a complete overview.

If you want to build the windows installer with `make deploy` you need [NSIS](https://nsis.sourceforge.io/Main_Page):

    sudo apt install nsis

Acquire the source in the usual way:

    git clone https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin.git
    cd bitcoin

## Building for 64-bit Windows

The first step is to install the mingw-w64 cross-compilation tool chain:

```sh
sudo apt install g++-mingw-w64-x86-64-posix
```

Once the toolchain is installed the build steps are common:

Note that for WSL the Bitcoin Core source path MUST be somewhere in the default mount file system, for
example /usr/src/bitcoin, AND not under /mnt/d/. If this is not the case the dependency autoconf scripts will fail.
This means you cannot use a directory that is located directly on the host Windows file system to perform the build.

Additional WSL Note: WSL support for [launching Win32 applications](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/blogs/wsl/windows-and-ubuntu-interoperability#launching-win32-applications-from-within-wsl)
results in `Autoconf` configure scripts being able to execute Windows Portable Executable files. This can cause
unexpected behaviour during the build, such as Win32 error dialogs for missing libraries. The recommended approach
is to temporarily disable WSL support for Win32 applications.

Build using:

    PATH=$(echo "$PATH" | sed -e 's/:\/mnt.*//g') # strip out problematic Windows %PATH% imported var
    sudo bash -c "echo 0 > /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc/status" # Disable WSL support for Win32 applications.
    cd depends
    make HOST=x86_64-w64-mingw32
    cd ..
    ./autogen.sh
    CONFIG_SITE=$PWD/depends/x86_64-w64-mingw32/share/config.site ./configure --prefix=/
    make # use "-j N" for N parallel jobs
    sudo bash -c "echo 1 > /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc/status" # Enable WSL support for Win32 applications.

## Depends system

For further documentation on the depends system see [README.md](../depends/README.md) in the depends directory.

Installation
-------------

After building using the Windows subsystem it can be useful to copy the compiled
executables to a directory on the Windows drive in the same directory structure
as they appear in the release `.zip` archive. This can be done in the following
way. This will install to `c:\workspace\bitcoin`, for example:

    make install DESTDIR=/mnt/c/workspace/bitcoin

You can also create an installer using:

    make deploy

Commit message:

doc: Add note about distro's g++-mingw-w64-x86-64-posix version
This stems from a requirement for the g++ minimum supported version
being >= 11.

doc/build-windows.md, after:

WINDOWS BUILD NOTES
====================

Below are some notes on how to build Bitcoin Core for Windows.

The options known to work for building Bitcoin Core on Windows are:

* On Linux, using the [Mingw-w64](https://www.mingw-w64.org/) cross compiler tool chain.
* On Windows, using [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) and Mingw-w64.
* On Windows, using [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com). See [README.md](/build_msvc/README.md).

Other options which may work, but which have not been extensively tested are (please contribute instructions):

* On Windows, using a POSIX compatibility layer application such as [cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com/) or [msys2](https://www.msys2.org/).

The instructions below work on Ubuntu and Debian. Make sure the distribution's `g++-mingw-w64-x86-64-posix`
package meets the minimum required `g++` version specified in [dependencies.md](dependencies.md).

Installing Windows Subsystem for Linux
---------------------------------------

Follow the upstream installation instructions, available [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install).

Cross-compilation for Ubuntu and Windows Subsystem for Linux
------------------------------------------------------------

The steps below can be performed on Ubuntu or WSL. The depends system
will also work on other Linux distributions, however the commands for
installing the toolchain will be different.

First, install the general dependencies:

    sudo apt update
    sudo apt upgrade
    sudo apt install build-essential libtool autotools-dev automake pkg-config bsdmainutils curl git

A host toolchain (`build-essential`) is necessary because some dependency
packages need to build host utilities that are used in the build process.

See [dependencies.md](dependencies.md) for a complete overview.

If you want to build the windows installer with `make deploy` you need [NSIS](https://nsis.sourceforge.io/Main_Page):

    sudo apt install nsis

Acquire the source in the usual way:

    git clone https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin.git
    cd bitcoin

## Building for 64-bit Windows

The first step is to install the mingw-w64 cross-compilation tool chain:

```sh
sudo apt install g++-mingw-w64-x86-64-posix
```

Once the toolchain is installed the build steps are common:

Note that for WSL the Bitcoin Core source path MUST be somewhere in the default mount file system, for
example /usr/src/bitcoin, AND not under /mnt/d/. If this is not the case the dependency autoconf scripts will fail.
This means you cannot use a directory that is located directly on the host Windows file system to perform the build.

Additional WSL Note: WSL support for [launching Win32 applications](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/blogs/wsl/windows-and-ubuntu-interoperability#launching-win32-applications-from-within-wsl)
results in `Autoconf` configure scripts being able to execute Windows Portable Executable files. This can cause
unexpected behaviour during the build, such as Win32 error dialogs for missing libraries. The recommended approach
is to temporarily disable WSL support for Win32 applications.

Build using:

    PATH=$(echo "$PATH" | sed -e 's/:\/mnt.*//g') # strip out problematic Windows %PATH% imported var
    sudo bash -c "echo 0 > /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc/status" # Disable WSL support for Win32 applications.
    cd depends
    make HOST=x86_64-w64-mingw32
    cd ..
    ./autogen.sh
    CONFIG_SITE=$PWD/depends/x86_64-w64-mingw32/share/config.site ./configure --prefix=/
    make # use "-j N" for N parallel jobs
    sudo bash -c "echo 1 > /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc/status" # Enable WSL support for Win32 applications.

## Depends system

For further documentation on the depends system see [README.md](../depends/README.md) in the depends directory.

Installation
-------------

After building using the Windows subsystem it can be useful to copy the compiled
executables to a directory on the Windows drive in the same directory structure
as they appear in the release `.zip` archive. This can be done in the following
way. This will install to `c:\workspace\bitcoin`, for example:

    make install DESTDIR=/mnt/c/workspace/bitcoin

You can also create an installer using:

    make deploy
