contrib/seeds/README.md, before:

# Seeds

Utility to generate the seeds.txt list that is compiled into the client
(see [src/chainparamsseeds.h](/src/chainparamsseeds.h) and other utilities in [contrib/seeds](/contrib/seeds)).

Be sure to update `PATTERN_AGENT` in `makeseeds.py` to include the current version,
and remove old versions as necessary (at a minimum when SeedsServiceFlags()
changes its default return value, as those are the services which seeds are added
to addrman with).

The seeds compiled into the release are created from sipa's and achow101's DNS seed and AS map
data. Run the following commands from the `/contrib/seeds` directory:

```
curl https://bitcoin.sipa.be/seeds.txt.gz | gzip -dc > seeds_main.txt
curl https://mainnet.achownodes.xyz/seeds.txt.gz | gzip -dc >> seeds_main.txt
curl https://testnet.achownodes.xyz/seeds.txt.gz | gzip -dc > seeds_test.txt
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fjahr/asmap-data/main/latest_asmap.dat > asmap-filled.dat
python3 makeseeds.py -a asmap-filled.dat -s seeds_main.txt > nodes_main.txt
cat nodes_main_manual.txt >> nodes_main.txt
python3 makeseeds.py -a asmap-filled.dat -s seeds_test.txt > nodes_test.txt
# TODO: Uncomment when a seeder publishes seeds.txt.gz for testnet4
# python3 makeseeds.py -a asmap-filled.dat -s seeds_testnet4.txt -m 30000 > nodes_testnet4.txt
python3 generate-seeds.py . > ../../src/chainparamsseeds.h
```

Commit message:

seeds: Pull nodes from virtu's crawler
Pull additional nodes from virtu's crawler. Data includes sufficient
Onion and I2P nodes to align the uptime requirements for these networks
to that of clearnet nodes (i.e., 50%). Data also includes more than
three times the number of CJDNS nodes currently hardcoded into
nodes_main_manual.txt, so hardcoded nodes becomes obsolete.

contrib/seeds/README.md, after:

# Seeds

Utility to generate the seeds.txt list that is compiled into the client
(see [src/chainparamsseeds.h](/src/chainparamsseeds.h) and other utilities in [contrib/seeds](/contrib/seeds)).

Be sure to update `PATTERN_AGENT` in `makeseeds.py` to include the current version,
and remove old versions as necessary (at a minimum when SeedsServiceFlags()
changes its default return value, as those are the services which seeds are added
to addrman with).

The seeds compiled into the release are created from sipa's and achow101's DNS seed,
virtu's crawler, and fjahr's community AS map data. Run the following commands from the
`/contrib/seeds` directory:

```
curl https://bitcoin.sipa.be/seeds.txt.gz | gzip -dc > seeds_main.txt
curl https://mainnet.achownodes.xyz/seeds.txt.gz | gzip -dc >> seeds_main.txt
curl https://testnet.achownodes.xyz/seeds.txt.gz | gzip -dc > seeds_test.txt
curl https://21.ninja/seeds.txt.gz | gzip -dc >> seeds_main.txt
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fjahr/asmap-data/main/latest_asmap.dat > asmap-filled.dat
python3 makeseeds.py -a asmap-filled.dat -s seeds_main.txt > nodes_main.txt
python3 makeseeds.py -a asmap-filled.dat -s seeds_test.txt > nodes_test.txt
# TODO: Uncomment when a seeder publishes seeds.txt.gz for testnet4
# python3 makeseeds.py -a asmap-filled.dat -s seeds_testnet4.txt -m 30000 > nodes_testnet4.txt
python3 generate-seeds.py . > ../../src/chainparamsseeds.h
```
